{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 CHAPTER ONE - MIRACLES \
WHO AM I? And how, I wonder, will this story end? \
The sun has come up and I am sitting by a window that is foggy with the breath of a life gone by. I\'92m a sight this morning: two shirts, heavy pants, a scarf wrapped twice around my neck and tucked into a thick sweater knitted by my daughter thirty birthdays ago. The thermostat in my room is set as high as it will go, and a smaller space heater sits directly behind me. II clicks and groans and spews hot air like a fairy-tale dragon, and still my body shivers with a cold that will never go away, a cold that has been eighty years in the making. Eighty years. I wonder if this is how it is for everyone my age. \
My life? It isn\'92t easy to explain. It has not been the rip-roaring spectacular I fancied it would be, but neither have I burrowed around with the gophers. I suppose it has most resembled a blue-chip stock: fairly stable, more ups than downs, and gradually trending upwards over time. I\'92ve learned that not everyone can say this about his life. But do not be misled. I am nothing special, of this I am sure. I am a common man with common thoughts, and I\'92ve led a common life. There are no monuments dedicated to me and my name will soon be forgotten, but I\'92ve loved another with all my heart and soul, and to me this has always been enough. \
The romantics would call this a love story: the cynics would call it a tragedy. In my mind it\'92s a little bit of both, and no matter how you choose to view it in the end, it does not change the fact that it involves a great deal of my life. I have no complaints about the path I\'92ve chosen to follow and the places it has taken me\'97the path has always been the right one. I wouldn\'92t have had it any other way. \
Time, unfortunately doesn\'92t make it easy to stay on course. The path is straight as ever, but now it is strewn with the rocks and gravel that accumulate over a lifetime. Until three years ago it would have been easy to ignore, but it\'92s impossible now. There is a sickness rolling through my body; I\'92m neither strong nor healthy, and my days are spent like an old party balloon: listless, spongy and growing softer over time. \
I cough, and through squinted eyes I check my watch. I realize it is time to go. I stand and shuffle across the room; stopping at the desk to pick up the notebook I have read a hundred times. I slip it beneath my arm and continue on my way to the place I must go. \
I walk on tiled floors, white speckled with grey. Like my hair and the hair of most people here, though I\'92m the only one in the hallway this morning. They are in their rooms, alone except for television, but they, like me, are used to it. A person can get used to anything, given enough lime. \
I hear the muffled sounds of crying in the distance and know who is making them. The nurses see me and we smile and exchange greetings. I am sure they wonder about me and the things that I go through every day. I listen as they begin to whisper among themselves when I pass. \
\'93There he goes again.\'94 I hear. \'93I hope it turns out well.\'94 But they say nothing directly to me about it. \
A minute later, I reach the room. The door has been propped open for me, as it usually is. There are two nurses in the room, and as I enter they say \'93Good morning\'94 with cheery voices, and I take a moment to ask about the kids and the schools and upcoming vacations. We talk above the crying for a minute or so. They do not seem to notice: they have become numb to it, but then again, so have I. \
Afterwards I sit in the chair that has come to be shaped like me. They are finishing up now; her clothes are on, but she is crying. It will become quieter after they leave. I know. The excitement of the \
morning always upsets her, and today is no exception. Finally the nurses walk out. Both of them touch me and smile as they walk by. \
I sit for just a second and stare at her, but she doesn\'92t return the look. I understand, for she doesn\'92t know who I am. I\'92m a stranger to her. Then, turning away, I how my head and pray silently for the strength I know I will need. \
Ready now. On go the glasses, out of my pocket comes a magnifier. I put it on the table for a moment while I open the notebook. It takes two licks on my gnarled finger to get the well-worn cover open to the first page. Then I put the magnifier in place. \
There is always a moment right before I begin to read the story when my mind churns, and I wonder, will it happen today? I don\'92t know, for I never know beforehand and deep down it really doesn\'92t matter. It\'92s the possibility that keeps me going. And though you may call me a dreamer or a fool. I believe that anything is possible. \
I realize that the odds, and science, are against me. But science is not the total answer. This I know, this I have learned in my lifetime. And that leaves me with the belief that miracles, no matter how inexplicable or unbelievable, are real and can occur without regard to the natural order of things. So once again, just as I do every day, I begin to read the notebook aloud, so that she can hear it, in the hope that the miracle that has come to dominate my life will once again prevail. \
And maybe, just maybe, it will. \
CHAPTER TWO GHOSTS \
It was early October 1946, and Noah Calhoun watched the fading sun sink lower from the porch of his plantation-style home. He liked to sit here in the evenings, especially after working hard all day, and let his thoughts wander. It was how he relaxed, a routine he\'92d learned from his father. \
He especially liked to look at the trees and their reflections in the river. North Carolina trees are beautiful in deep autumn: greens, yellows, reds, oranges, every shade in between, their dazzling colours glowing with the sun. \
The house was built in 1772, making it one of the oldest, as well as largest, homes in New Bern. Originally it was the main house on a working plantation, and he had bought it right after the war ended and had spent the last eleven months and a small fortune repairing it. The reporter from the Raleigh paper had done an article on it a few weeks ago and said it was one of the finest restorations he\'92d ever seen. At least the house was. The rest of the property was another story, and that was where Noah had spent most of the day. \
The home sat on twelve acres adjacent to Brices Creek, and he\'92d worked on the wooden fence that lined the other three sides of the property; checking for dry rot or termites, replacing posts where he had to. He still had more work to do on the west side, and as he\'92d put the tools away earlier he\'92d made a mental note to call and have some more timber delivered. He\'92d gone into the house, drunk a glass of sweet tea, then showered, the water washing away dirt and fatigue. \
Afterwards he\'92d combed his hair back, put on some faded jeans and a long-sleeved blue shirt, poured himself another glass of tea and gone to the porch, where he sat every day at this time. \
He reached for his guitar, remembering his father as he did so, thinking how much he missed him. Noah strummed once, adjusted the tension on two strings, then strummed again, soft, quiet music. He hummed at first, then began to sing as night came down around him. \
It was a little after seven when he stopped and settled back into his rocking chair. By habit, he looked upwards and saw Orion, the Big Dipper and the Pole Star, twinkling in the autumn sky. \
He started to run the numbers in his head, then stopped. He knew he\'92d spent almost his entire savings on the house and would have to find a job again soon, but he pushed the thought away and decided to \
enjoy the remaining months of restoration without worrying about it. It would work out for him, he knew: it always did. \
Cem, his hound dog, came up to him then and nuzzled his hand before lying down at his feet. Hey girl, how\'92re you doing?\'94 he asked as he patted her head, and she whined softly, her soft round eyes peering upwards. A car accident had taken one of her legs, but she still moved well enough and kept him company on nights like these. \
He was thirty-one now, not too old, but old enough to be lonely. He hadn\'92t dated since he\'92d been back here, hadn\'92t met anyone who remotely interested him, It was his own fault, he knew. There was something that kept a distance between him and any woman who started to get close, something he wasn\'92t sure he could change even if he tried. And sometimes, in the moments before sleep, he wondered if he was destined to be alone for ever. \
The evening passed, staying warm, nice. Noah listened to the crickets and the rustling leaves, thinking that the sound of nature was more real and aroused more emotion than things like cars and planes. Natural things gave back more than they took, and their sounds always brought him back to the way man was supposed to he. There were times during the war, especially after a major engagement, when he had often thought about these simple sounds. \'93It\'92ll keep you from going crazy,\'94 his father had told him the day he\'92d shipped out. \'93It\'92s God\'92s music and it\'92ll take you home.\'94 \
He finished his tea, went inside, found a book, then turned on the porch light on his way back out. After sitting down again, he looked at the book. It was old, the cover was torn, and the pages were stained with mud and water. It was Leaves of Grass by Walt Whitman, and he had carried it with him throughout the war. He let the book open randomly and read the words in front of him: \
This is thy hour, 0 Soul, thy free flight into the wordless,\uc0\u8232 Away from hooks, away from art, the day erased, the lesson done, Thee fully forth emerging, silent, gazing, pondering the themes \
thou lovest best, \
Night, sleep, death and the stars. \
He smiled to himself. For some reason Whitman always reminded him of New Bern, and he was glad he\'92d come back. Though he\'92d been away for fourteen years, this was home and he knew a lot of people here, most of them from his youth. It wasn\'92t surprising. Like so many southern towns, the people who lived here never changed, they just grew a bit older. \
His best friend these days was Gus, a seventy-year-old black man who lived down the road. They had met a couple of weeks after Noah bought the house, when Gus had shown up with some homemade liquor and Brunswick stew, and the two had spent their first evening together getting drunk and telling stories. \
Now Gus showed up a couple of nights a week, usually around eight. With four kids and eleven grandchildren in the house, he needed to get out now and then, and Noah couldn\'92t blame him. Usually Gus would bring his harmonica and, after talking for a little while, they\'92d play a few songs together. \
He\'92d come to regard Gus as family. There really wasn\'92t anyone else, at least not since his father died last year. He was an only child and his mother had died of influenza when he was two. And though he had wanted to at one time, he had never married. \
But he had been in love once, that he knew. Once and only once, and a long time ago. And it had changed him forever. Perfect love did that to a person, and this had been perfect. \
Coastal clouds slowly began to roll across the evening sky, turning silver with the reflection of the moon. As they thickened, he leaned his head back against the rocking chair. His legs moved automatically, keeping a steady rhythm, and he felt his mind drifting back to a warm evening like this fourteen years ago. \
It was just after graduation 1932, the opening night of the Neuse River Festival. The town was out in full, enjoying barbecues and games of chance. It was humid that night\'97for some reason he remembered that clearly. He arrived alone, and as he strolled through the crowd, looking for friends, he saw Fin and Sarah, two people he\'92d grown up with, talking to a girl he\'92d never seen before. She was pretty, he remembered thinking, and when he finally joined them, she looked his way with a pair of hazy eyes. \'93Hi,\'94 she\'92d said simply as she offered her hand. \'93Finley\'92s told me a lot about you.\'94 \
An ordinary beginning, something that would have been forgotten had it been anyone but her. But as he shook her hand and met those striking emerald eyes, he knew before he\'92d taken his next breath that she was the one he could spend the rest of his life looking for but never find again. She seemed that good, that perfect. \
From there, it went like a tornado wind. Fin told him she was spending the summer in New Bern with her family, because her father worked for a tobacco firm, and though he only nodded, the way she was looking at him made his silence seem okay. Fin laughed then, because he knew what was happening, and Sarah suggested they get some cherry cokes, and the four of them stayed at the festival until the crowds were thin and everything closed up for the night. \
They met the following day, and the day after that, and they soon became inseparable. Every morning but Sunday, when he had to go to church, he would finish his chores as quickly as possible, then make a straight line to Fort Totten Park, where she\'92d be waiting for him. Because she was a newcomer and hadn\'92t lived in a small town before, they spent their days doing things that were completely new to her. He taught her how to bait a line and fish the shallows for largemouth bass and took her exploring through the backwoods of the Croatan Forest. They rode in canoes and watched summer thunderstorms, and it seemed as though they\'92d always known each other. \
But he learned things as well. At the town dance in the tobacco barn, it was she who taught him how to waltz and do the Charleston, and though they stumbled through the first few songs, her patience with \
him eventually paid off, and they danced together until the music ended. He walked her home afterwards, and when they paused on the porch after saying good night, he kissed her for the first time and wondered why he had waited as long as he had. \
Later in the summer he brought her to this house, looked past the decay, and told her that one day he was going to own it and fix it up. They spent hours together talking about their dreams\'97his of seeing the world, hers of being an artist\'97and on a humid night in August. They both lost their virginity. When she left three weeks later, she took a piece of him and the rest of summer with her. He watched her leave town on an early rainy morning, watched through eyes that hadn\'92t slept the night before, then went home and packed a hag. He spent the next week alone on Harkers Island. \
Noah checked his watch. Eight twelve. He got up and walked to the front of the house and looked up the road. Gus wasn\'92t in sight, and Noah figured he wouldn\'92t be coming. He went back to his rocker and sat again. \
He remembered talking to Gus about her. The first time he mentioned her. Gus started to shake his head and laugh. \'93So that\'92s the ghost you been running from.\'94 When asked what he meant. Gus said. \'93You know, the ghost, the memory. I been watchin\'92 you workin\'92 day and night, slavin\'92 so hard you barely have time to catch your breath. People do that for three reasons. Either they crazy, or stupid, or tryin\'92 to forget. And with you, I knew you was tryin\'92 to forget. I just didn\'92t know what.\'94 \
Gus was right, of course. New Bern was haunted now. Haunted by the ghost of her memory. He saw her in Fort Totten Park, their place, every time he walked by. When he sat on the porch at night with his guitar, he saw her beside him, listening as he played the music of his childhood. Everywhere he looked, he saw things that brought her back to life. \
Noah shook his head, and when her image began to fade he returned to Whitman. He read for an hour, looking up every now and then to see raccoons and possums scurrying near the creek. At nine thirty he \
closed the book, went upstairs to the bedroom and wrote in his journal. Forty minutes later he was sleeping. Clem wandered up the stairs, sniffed him as he slept, and then paced in circles before finally curling up at the foot of his bed. \
EARLIER THAT evening and a hundred miles away, she sat alone on the porch swing of her parents\'92 home, one leg tucked beneath her, wondering if she\'92d made the right decision. She\'92d struggled with it for days\'97and had struggled some more this evening\'97but in the end she knew she would never forgive herself if she let the opportunity slip away. \
Lon didn\'92t know the real reason she left the following morning. The week before, she\'92d hinted to him that she might want to visit some antique shops near the coast. \'93It\'92s just a couple of days,\'94 she said, \'93and besides, I need a break from planning the wedding.\'94 She felt bad about the lie, but knew there was no way she could tell him the truth. Her leaving had nothing to do with him, and it wouldn\'92t he fair of her to ask him to understand. \
It was an easy drive from Raleigh, slightly more than two hours, and she arrived a little before eleven. She checked into a small inn downtown, went to her room and unpacked her suitcase, hanging her dresses in the closet and putting everything else in the drawers. She had a quick lunch, asked the waitress for directions to the nearest antique stores, then spent the next few hours shopping. By four thirty she was back in her room. \
She sat on the edge of the bed, picked up the phone and called Lon. He couldn\'92t speak long, but before they hung up she gave him the phone number where she was staying and promised to call the following day. Good, she thought while hanging up the phone. Routine conversation, nothing out of the ordinary. Nothing to make him suspicious. \
She\'92d known him almost four years now, it was 1942 when they met, the world at war and America one year in. Everyone was doing their part and she was volunteering at the hospital downtown. The first waves of wounded young soldiers were coming home, and she \
spent her days with broken men and shattered bodies. When Lon, with his easy charm, introduced himself at a party, she saw in him exactly what she needed: someone with confidence about the future and a sense of humour that drove all her fears away. \
He was handsome, intelligent and driven, a successful lawyer eight years older than she, and he pursued his job with passion, not only winning cases but also making a name for himself. She understood his vigorous pursuit of success, for her father and most of the men she met in her social circle were the same way. Like them, he\'92d been raised that way, and, in the caste system of the South, family name and accomplishments were often the most important consideration in marriage. In some cases they were the only consideration. \
Though she had quietly rebelled against this idea since childhood and had dated a few men best described as reckless, she found herself drawn to Lon\'92s easy ways and had gradually come to love him. Despite the long hours he worked, he was good to her. He was a gentleman, mature and responsible, and during those terrible periods of the war when she needed someone to hold her, he never once turned her away. She felt secure with him and knew he loved her as well and that was why she had accepted his proposal. \
Thinking these things made her feel guilty about being here, and she knew she should pack her things and leave before she changed her mind. She picked up her handbag, hesitated and almost made it to the door. But coincidence had pushed her here, and she put the bag down, again realizing that if she quit now she would always wonder what would have happened. She couldn\'92t live with that \
She went to the bathroom and started a bath. After checking the temperature she walked to the chest of drawers in the bedroom, taking off her gold earrings as she crossed the room. She found her sponge bag, opened it and pulled out a razor and a bar of soap, then undressed in front of the chest of drawers. She looked at herself in the mirror. Her body was firm and well proportioned, breasts softly rounded, stomach flat, legs slim. She\'92d inherited her mother\'92s high cheekbones, \
smooth skin and blonde hair, but her best feature was her own. She had \'93eyes like ocean waves\'94, as Lon liked to say. \
Taking the razor and soap, she went to the bathroom again, turned off the tap, set a towel where she could reach it and stepped gingerly into the bath. \
She liked the way a bath relaxed her, and she slipped lower in the water. The day had been long and her back was tense, but she was pleased she had finished shopping so quickly. She had to go hack to Raleigh with something tangible, and the things she had picked out would work fine. She made a mental note to find the names of some other stores in the Beaufort area, then suddenly doubted she would need to. Lon wasn\'92t the type to check up on her. \
She reached for the soap, lathered up and began to shave her legs. As she did, she thought about her parents and what they would think of her behaviour. No doubt they would disapprove, especially her mother. Her mother had never really accepted what had happened the summer they\'92d spent here and wouldn\'92t accept it now; no matter what reason she gave. \
She soaked a while longer in the bath before finally getting out and towelling off. She went to the closet and looked for a dress, finally choosing a long yellow one that dipped slightly in the front, the kind that was common in the South. She slipped it on and looked in the mirror, turning from side to side. It fitted her well, but she eventually decided against it and put it back on the hanger. Instead she found a more casual, less revealing dress and put that on. Light blue with a touch of lace, it buttoned up at the front, and though it didn\'92t look quite as nice as the first one, it conveyed an image she thought would be more appropriate. \
She wore little make-up, just a touch of eye shadow and mascara to accent her eyes. Perfume next, not too much. She found a pair of small hooped earrings, put those on, then slipped on the tan, low- heeled sandals she had been wearing earlier. She brushed her blonde hair, pinned it up and looked in the mirror. No, it was too much, she thought, and she let it back down. Better. \
When she was finished she stepped back and evaluated herself. She looked good: not too dressy, not too casual. She didn\'92t want to overdo it. After all, she didn\'92t know what to expect. It had been a long time\'97 probably too long\'97and many different things could have happened, even things she didn\'92t want to consider. \
She looked down and saw her hands were shaking, and she laughed to herself. It was strange; she wasn\'92t normally this nervous. \
She found her handbag and car keys, then picked up the room key. She turned it over in her hand a couple of times, thinking - You\'92ve come this far, don\'92t give up now. She nearly left then, but instead sat on the bed again. She checked her watch. Almost six o\'92clock. She knew she had to leave in a few minutes\'97she didn\'92t want to arrive after dark\'97but she needed a little more time. \
\'93Damn,\'94 she whispered. \'93What am I doing here? I shouldn\'92t be here. There\'92s no reason for it.\'94 But once she said it she knew it wasn\'92t true. If nothing else, she would have her answer. \
She opened her handbag and thumbed through it until she came to a folded-up piece of newspaper. After taking it out slowly, almost reverently, she unfolded it and stared at it for a while. \'93This is why,\'94 she finally said to herself, \'93this is what it\'92s all about.\'94 \
NOAH GOT UP at five and kayaked for an hour up Brices Creek, as he usually did. When he finished he changed into his work clothes, warmed some bread rolls from the day before, grabbed a couple of apples and washed his breakfast down with two cups of coffee. \
He worked on the fencing again, repairing the posts. It was an Indian summer, the temperature over eighty degrees, and by lunchtime he was hot and tired and glad of the break. \
He ate at the creek because the mullets were jumping. He liked to watch them jump three or four limes and glide through the air before vanishing into the brackish water. For some reason he had always been pleased by the fact that their instinct hadn\'92t changed for thousands, maybe tens of thousands, of years. \
Sometimes he wondered if man\'92s instincts had changed in that lime and always concluded that they hadn\'92t. At least in the basic, most primal ways. As far as he could tell, man had always been aggressive, always striving to dominate, trying to control the world and everything in it. The war in Europe and Japan proved that. \
He stopped working a little after three and walked to a small shed that sat near his dock. He went in, found his fishing pole, a couple of lures and some live crickets he kept on hand, then walked out to the dock, baited his hook and cast his line. \
Fishing always made him reflect on his life, and he did so now. After his mother died he could remember spending his days in a dozen different homes. For one reason or another, he stuttered badly as a child and was teased for it. He began to speak less and less, and by the age of five he wouldn\'92t speak at all. When he started classes, his teachers thought he was retarded and recommended that he be pulled out of school. \
Instead, his father took matters into his own hands. He kept him in school and afterwards made him come to the timber yard where he worked, to haul and stack wood. \'93It\'92s good that we spend some time together,\'94 he would say as they worked side-by-side, \'93just like my daddy and I did.\'94 \
His father would talk about animals or tell stories and legends common to North Carolina. Within a few months Noah was speaking again, though not well, and his father decided to teach him to read with books of poetry. \'93Learn to read this aloud and you\'92ll be able to say anything you want to.\'94 His father had been right again, and by the following year Noah had lost his stutter. But he continued to go to the timber yard every day simply because his father was there, and in the evenings he would read the works of Whitman and Tennyson aloud as his father rocked beside him. He had been reading poetry ever since. \
When he got a little older he spent most of his weekends and vacations alone. He explored the Croatan forest in his first canoe, following Brices Creek for twenty miles until he could go no further, then hiked the remaining miles to the coast. Camping and exploring \
became his passion, and he spent hours in the forest, whistling quietly and playing his guitar for beavers and geese and wild blue herons. Poets knew that isolation in nature, far from people and things man- made, was good for the soul, and he\'92d always identified with poets. \
Although he was quiet, years of heavy lifting at the timber yard helped him excel in sports, and his athletic success led to popularity. He enjoyed the football and track meets, and, though most of his teammates spent their free time together as well, he rarely joined them. He had a few girlfriends in school but none had ever made an impression on him. Except for one. And she came after graduation. \
Allie. His Allie. \
He remembered talking to Fin about Allie after they left the festival that first night, and Fin had laughed. Then he\'92d made two predictions: first that they would fall in love, and second that it wouldn\'92t work out. \
There was a slight tug at his line and Noah hoped for a large-mouth bass, but the tugging eventually stopped and, after reeling his line in and checking the bait, he cast again. \
Fin ended up being right on both counts. Most of the summer she had to make excuses to her parents whenever they wanted to see each other. It wasn\'92t that they didn\'92t like him\'97it was that he was from a different class, too poor, and they would never approve if their daughter became serious with someone like him. \'93I don\'92t care what my parents think, I love you and always will,\'94 she would say. \'93We\'92ll find a way to be together.\'94 \
But in the end they couldn\'92t. By early September the tobacco had been harvested and she had no choice but to return with her family to Winston-Salem. \'93Only the summer is over, Allie, not us,\'94 he\'92d said the morning she left. \'93We\'92ll never be over.\'94 But they were. For a reason he didn\'92t understand, the letters he wrote went unanswered. \
He decided to leave New Bern to help get her off his mind, and also because the Depression made earning a living in New Bern almost impossible. He went first to Norfolk and worked at a shipyard for six \
months before he was laid off, then moved to New Jersey because he\'92d heard the economy wasn\'92t so bad there. \
He found a job in a scrap yard, separating scrap metal from everything else. The owner, a Jewish man named Morris Goldman, was intent on collecting as much scrap metal as he could, convinced that a war was going to start in Europe and that America would be dragged in again. Noah didn\'92t care. He was just happy to have a job. \
He worked hard. Not only did it help him keep his mind off Allie during the day, but it was something he felt he had to do. His daddy had always said: \'93Give a day\'92s work for a day\'92s pay. Anything less is stealing.\'94 That attitude pleased his boss. \'93It\'92s a shame you aren\'92t Jewish,\'94 Goldman would say, \'93you\'92re such a fine boy in so many other ways.\'94 It was the best compliment Goldman could give. \
He continued to think about Allie at night. He wrote to her once a month but never received a reply. Eventually he wrote one final letter and forced himself to accept the fact that the summer they\'92d spent with one another was the only thing they\'92d ever share. \
Still, though, she stayed with him. Three years after the last letter, he went to Winston-Salem in the hope of finding her. He went to her house, discovered that she had moved and, after talking to some neighbours, finally called her father\'92s firm. The girl who answered was new and didn\'92t recognize the name, but she poked around the personnel files for him. She found out that Allie\'92s father had left the company and that no forwarding address was listed. That was the first and last time he ever looked for her. \
For the next eight years he worked for Goldman. As the years dragged on, the company grew and he was promoted. By 1940 he had mastered the business and was running the entire operation, brokering the deals and managing a staff of thirty. The yard had become the largest scrap-metal dealer on the east coast. \
During that time he dated a few different women. He became serious with one, a waitress from the local diner with deep blue eyes and silky black hair. Although they dated for two years and had many good \
times together, he never came to feel the same way about her as he did about Allie. She was a few years older than he was, and it was she who taught him the ways to please a woman, the places to touch and kiss, the things to whisper. \
Towards the end of their relationship she\'92d told him once, \'93I wish I could give you what you\'92re looking for, but I don\'92t know what it is. There\'92s a part of you that you keep closed off from everyone, including me. It\'92s as if your\'92 mind is on someone else. It\'92s like you keep waiting for her to pop out of thin air to take you away from all this. . .\'94 A month later she visited him at work and told him she\'92d met someone else. He understood. They parted as friends, and the following year he received a postcard from her saying she was married. He hadn\'92t heard from her since. \
In December 1941, when he was twenty-six, the war began, just as Goldman had predicted. Noah walked into his office the following month and informed Goldman of his intent to enlist, then returned to New Bern to say goodbye to his father. Five weeks later he found himself in training camp. While there, he received a letter from Goldman thanking him for his work, together with a copy of a certificate entitling him to a small percentage of the scrap yard if it was ever sold. \'93I couldn\'92t have done it without you,\'94 the letter said. \'93You\'92re the finest young man who ever worked for me, even if you aren\'92t Jewish.\'94 \
He spent his next three years with Patton\'92s Third Army, tramping through deserts in North Africa and forests in Europe with thirty pounds on his back, his infantry unit never far from action. \
He watched his friends die around him; watched as some of them were buried thousands of miles from home. \
He remembered the war ending in Europe, then a few months later in Japan. Just before he was discharged he received a letter from a lawyer in New Jersey representing Morris Goldman. Upon meeting the lawyer he found out that Goldman had died a year earlier and his estate had been liquidated. The business had been sold, and Noah was given a cheque for almost seventy thousand dollars. \
The following week he returned to New Bern and bought the house. He remembered bringing his father around later, pointing out the changes he intended to make. His father seemed weak as he walked, coughing and wheezing. Noah was concerned, but his father told him not to worry, assuring him that he had the flu. \
Less than one month later his father died of pneumonia and was buried next to his wife in the local cemetery. Noah tried to stop by regularly to leave some flowers; occasionally he left a note. And every night without fail he took a moment to say a prayer for the man who\'92d taught him everything that mattered. \
AFTER REELING in the line, he put the gear away and went back to the house. His neighbour, Martha Shaw, was there to thank him, bringing three loaves of homemade bread in appreciation for what he\'92d done. Her husband had been killed in the war, leaving her with three children and a shack to raise them in. Winter was coming, and he\'92d spent a few days at her place last week repairing her roof, replacing broken windows and sealing the others, and fixing her wood stove. He hoped it would be enough to get them through. \
Once she\'92d left, he got into his battered Dodge truck and went to see Gus. He always stopped there when he was going to the store, because Gus\'92s family didn\'92t have a car. One of the daughters hopped up and rode with him, and they did their shopping at Capers General Store. \
When he got home he didn\'92t unpack the groceries right away. Instead he showered, found a Budweiser and a book by Dylan Thomas, and went to sit on the porch. \
SHE STILL had trouble believing it, even as she held the proof in her hands. It had been in the newspaper at her parents\'92 house three Sundays ago. She had gone to the kitchen to get a cup of coffee, and when she\'92d returned to the table her father had smiled and pointed at a small picture. \'93Remember this?\'94 \
He handed her the paper and, after an uninterested first glance, something in the picture caught her eye and she took a closer look. \'93It \
can\'92t be,\'94 she whispered, and when her father looked at her curiously she ignored him, sat down and read the article without speaking. She vaguely remembered her mother coming to the table and sitting opposite her, and when she finally put aside the paper her mother was staring at her. \'93Are you okay?\'94 she asked over her coffee cup. \'93You look a little pale.\'94 \
Allie didn\'92t answer right away, she couldn\'92t, and it was then that she\'92d noticed her hands were shaking. That had been when it started. \
\'93And here it will end, one way or the other,\'94 she whispered again. She refolded the scrap of paper and put it back, remembering that she had left her parents\'92 home later that day with the paper so she could cut out the article. She read it again before she went to bed that night, trying to fathom the coincidence, and read it again the next morning as if to make sure the whole thing wasn\'92t a dream. And now, after three weeks of long walks alone, after three weeks of distraction, it was the reason she\'92d come. \
When asked, she said her erratic behaviour was due to stress. It was the perfect excuse; everyone understood, including Lon, and that\'92s why he hadn\'92t argued when she\'92d wanted to get away for a couple of days. The wedding plans were stressful to everyone involved. Almost five hundred people were invited, including the governor, one senator and the ambassador to Peru. It was too much, in her opinion, but their engagement was news and had dominated the social pages since they had announced their plans six months ago. \
She took a deep breath and stood again. \'93It\'92s now or never,\'94 she whispered, then picked up her things and went to the door. She went downstairs and the manager smiled as she walked by. She could feel his eyes on her as she went out to her car. She slipped behind the wheel, started the engine and turned right onto Front Street. \
She still knew her way around the small town, even though she hadn\'92t been here in years. After crossing the Trent River on an old- fashioned drawbridge, she turned onto a gravel road that wound its way between antebellum farms, and she knew that, for some of the farmers, life hadn\'92t changed since before their grandparents were \
born. The constancy of the place brought back a flood of memories as she recognized landmarks she\'92d long ago forgotten. \
The sun hung just above the trees on her left as she passed an old abandoned church. She had explored it that summer, looking for souvenirs of the War between the States, and, as she passed, the memories of that day became stronger, as if they\'92d happened yesterday. \
A majestic oak tree on the riverbank came into view next, and the memories became more intense. It looked the same as it had back then, branches low and thick, stretching horizontally along the ground with moss draped over the limbs like a veil. She remembered sitting beneath the tree on a hot July day with someone who looked at her with a longing that took everything else away. And it had been at that moment that she\'92d first fallen in love. \
He was two years older than she was, and as she drove along this roadway-in-time, he slowly came into focus once again. He always looked older than he really was, she remembered thinking, slightly weathered, like a farmer coming home after hours in the field. He had the calloused hands and broad shoulders that came to those who worked hard for a living, and the first faint lines were beginning to form around dark eyes that seemed to read her every thought. \
He was tall and strong, with light brown hair, and handsome in his own way, but it was his voice that she remembered most of all. He had read to her that day as they lay beneath the tree with an accent that was soft and fluent, almost musical in quality. She remembered closing her eyes, listening closely and letting the words he was reading touch her soul. \
He thumbed through old books with dog-eared pages, books he\'92d read a hundred times. He\'92d read for a while, then stop, and the two of them would talk. She would tell him what she wanted in her life\'97her hopes and dreams for the future\'97and he would listen intently and then promise to make it all come true. And the way he said it made her believe him, and she knew then how much he meant to her. \
Another turn in the road and she finally saw the house in the distance. It had changed dramatically from what she remembered. She slowed the car, turning into the long, tree-lined dirt drive. \
She took a deep breath when she saw him on the porch, watching her car. He was dressed casually. From a distance, he looked the same as he had back then. When the light from the sun was behind him, he almost seemed to vanish into the scenery. \
Her car continued forward slowly, then finally stopped beneath an oak tree that shaded the front of the house. She turned the key, never taking her eyes from him, and the engine sputtered to a halt. He stepped off the porch and began to approach her, walking easily, then suddenly stopped cold as she emerged from the car. For a long time all they could do was stare at each other without moving. \
Allison Nelson, twenty-nine years old and engaged, a socialite, searching for answers, and Noah Calhoun, the dreamer, thirty-one, visited by the ghost that had come to dominate his life. \
}